# Rainfall Forecasting using Time Series Analysis

Developed a highly efficient Rainfall forecasting model for predicting the Rainfall intensity of Coonoor Hills, Nilgris,Tamil Nadu.This rainfall forecasting model has got great implication in the district of Coonoor for it being a Landslide prone area . A comparative study was made on the existing Regression techniques used for prediction like SVR, Random forest and Decision Trees .The results that were obtained when these techniques were implemented in the data was analyzed. The dataset used for training the model included the daily recorded Temperature, Humidity, Cloud speed, Wind speed and Wind Direction of Coonoor district for a span of 3 years. The model was made more efficient by including the rainfall intensities of nearby stations within an area of 5sqkm in the dataset along with the features mentioned above, The data set was preprocessed using techniques like Imputation, Feature scaling, Categorical Encoding and Normallisation. Further a highly powerful regression technique called XGboost was implemented on the dataset which proved to have a higher efficiency when compared to the above mentioned techniques.

Statistical modeling techniques like Naive forecast, Seasonal persistence, Auto Regression and ARIMA were also used for model development. A comparison between Regression and statistical modeling techniques were done.
Further Neural network based techniques like NARX, NAR, RNN as well as ANN were used to develop prediction models who's efficiency was further compared with that of the Regression and Statical Modeling based prediction models.
Dimensionality reduction as well as Sensitivity analysis was performed in the later stages using algorithms like Backward elimination and Grid Search for improving the efficiency of the model. Finally a statistical model was developed out of all the techniques by generating the regression equation used for prediction by each of the models.
